S E C T I O NA
1(a) Explain the following concept with a vivid illustration:"
A variable that can hold a reference to an obiect of c l a s s A can also hold a reference to an object belonging to any subclass of A'
(b) Consider the following code and explain the concept of polymorphism identifying hidden and overridden methods, and overloaded member(s).

// Code is here
(c) Where could the keyword S u p e r be used? Use S u p e r
to resolve overloading issues in (b) above.
(d) What makes constructor necessary in object programming?
(e) Explain why a constructor call is different from an ordinary subroutine or function call.
(f) Compare the 'possibility' of terminating a constructor call in Java and C++.
(g) Briefly discuss issues that give object-oriented programming edge over previous traditional programming models.
Your discussion should be centred on type, data, operations and functions.
25 Marks

SECTION B
.1(a) Describe five object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts that apply toJava programming.
(b) Java is a strongly typed language. Discuss
(c) Describe a data item scope, using a block of codes. Your program code should demonstrate the behaviour of both
local and global data items.
(d) Write a source code to create an abstract class Employees, having one abstract method paySalary;
then create classes CoreStaff and ContractStaff that implements the abstract method of the super class.
(e) Write a simple java code to demonstrate how the JOptionPane class can be used to accept GUI input from an end "user. 17 Marks

2(a) Write an interactive Java program that creates a method to calculate gross pay of staff, the method should receive a single parameter.
 Given that Gross Pay = Hours Worked X Standard Rate. (Hint: Assuming Standard Rate = 57.92) (b) With the aid of a diagram, describe the program development process.
(c) List 4 types of brackets used in Java programming language and explain their individual use. [array]. {scope}, (arguments)
(d) Defined a method that displays the address of your university, then demonstrate how this method can be called. 14 Marks

3. (a)With a single line of code each, illustrate how static and non static methods can be used.
(b) State four requirements in the standard naming convention for Java Identifiers.
(c) Using the appropriate library, create a class that includes the showMessageDialog() method.
Use this method to display any message ofyour choice that includes an integer value.
The integer value should be initiated. (Note: Make use of comments and concatenation operators.)
(d) Name ten valid Java keywords and ten valid data identifiers.
14 Marks

4.(a) What are the four data types accepted for declaring integer numbers in Java(, what differentiates one data type from the other?
(b) Using appropriate examples differentiate a syntax error from a logic error.
(c) What is the output from the following statement:
System.out.print("\\\\Can\b\\we\n\\go\t\\fishing?");
(d) Convert the variable yearlyBudget = 3095.65 to an integer. State the difference between implicit conversion and explicit conversion.